# NTP Assignment 1

When approaching this assignment, I tried to break it down by group, starting with group 1. Group 1 dealt with time conversion functions, meaning they handle the time format conversions between system time and the NTP time. This section allowed for demonstrating how EPOCHs play a part in format conversions. The functions included in this group were fairly straight forward and I did not have any issues with these.

For group 2, these functions were about how host and network byte orders differ. When data is being handled by a network, it must be in Network Byte Order (Big Endian), which differs from most host byte orders (Little Endian). Luckily, for this part, the C programming language provides some useful functions like htonl and ntohl, which can be utilized to convert from the different byte orders quickly. Again these functions were fairly straight forward, and were explained very thoroughly in the starter code.

For group 3, there was only one function, which handled building a NTP request. This group was once again, pretty straightforward, as it was just error handling, clearing fields, and assigning fields. The goal for this function was to build the ntp request, so most of the fields needed to be zero. An important part to note here is that the stratum must be set to zero, which tell's the reciever that the packet is asking for time.

For group 4, this was probably the most complex group of functions of the assignment. For the "decode_reference_id()" function, one issue I ran into was that I was unsure of how to inet_ntop function worked; however, after attending office hours, I got some insight on how to use it properly. Outside of that issue, the function's purpose was clearly outlined in the instructions, and the logic was easy to implement. The other function included in this group was "calculate_ntp_offset()", which performs the calculations to get T1, T2, T3, T4, and then from there get the delay, offset, and final conversion. The calculations for all of these were clearly outlined and the logic was pretty straightforward, I did mess up the offset calculation, as I used the wrong "T" value, but this was an easy fix.

For group 5, this simply dealt with display functions. For printing the packet info, it was nice to have the macros for getting the Leap Indicator, Version Number, and Mode. For the most part, the rest of this was just printf statement, and I used the example output provided to compare outputs and align mine with the correct output. The same goes for the print_ntp_results function.

Overall, I found this assignment to be pretty straightforward and clearly outlined, which was very useful during the implementation. I would say my biggest struggle was needing some refreshers on the C programming language, but I felt that this assignment also helped me polish up in that realm.